Hello, and welcome back to
digital forensic concepts.
In this course, course 9,
we're going to talk about
keyword in grep searches.
In this course, we're
going to cover how
to formulate case-specific
keyword lists,
a review of grep
and extended grep,
what they are and how they work.
We're also going to look at using
practical graph expressions
and extended grep expressions.
We're also going
to take a look at
keyword searching in
the free and open-source
tool autopsy.
In module 1, we're going to cover
keyword in grep searches.
When you're looking
at a case and you're
choosing a keyword list,
you want to think
about the type of
incident or a fence
you're investigating.
If you're not the case, agent,
you definitely want
to speak to them.
If you're not investigating,
you want to talk to
that person to find out
information regarding the case
that you're investigating.
We want to formulate
our keyword searches
around the elements
of the investigation.
What happened in this instance?
We want to include
any existing leads
or names of suspects or
people who may be involved.
We want to take a look
at our suspects and
find out stuff about
them personally.
This can help us locate
possible information
to break passwords.
We definitely want to look
at case-specific keywords,
keywords that will be useful
in this one particular case.
They're specific
to that one case.
Now a keyword searching, we
generally have two categories.
We have generic keywords.
Keywords that are generic
to a specific type of case,
like maybe a drug case or
maybe a theft of
intellectual property case.
Then we have
case-specific keywords,
and a case-specific keyword
is a keyword that is specific
to that one particular
case you're investigating.
That may be something like
suspect names or people
who involve names.
You can get generic
case keyword lists
from the URL I have up
here on the screen.
DIF or training,
DIF or resources.
If you belong to any groups,
you can check your list servers.
If you are in law
enforcement, ICAC,
Internet crimes against children
has keyword lists that you can
download and you can get
keyword lists from other
forensic examiners.
There are some limitations to
text-based keyword searching and
some of these are a bit shifting.
Bit shifting is when you
alter the data at
the binary level,
somebody goes in with
a hex editor and
alternates the data
at that binary level.
It will also cause
you to not be able to
search your file using
a text-based search scheme
if the file is encrypted.
Because remember encryption,
we're not looking at plain tasks.
That text is scrambled
using an algorithm,
so the file is encrypted.
Compressed files will also not be
able to be searched with
text-based keyword searching,
you would have to decompress
the file before you
could search it.
That's anything like a zip
file or an archive file.
Also, non-keyboard characters
or non-word characters
can be used to hide files
from keyword searching.
What I mean by using
non-word characters,
if we take a look at the slide,
if I'm looking for the
keywords, resume or bio,
maybe I'm doing an intellectual
property theft case
where somebody was
applying to a competitor and
going to take some of the
information with them.
If I put it into words, resume,
or bio, all I'm going to
find are those words.
It's not going to
hit on things like,
you see the re5um3.
It would not find that and
it would not find the b!0.
If I was searching for
an IP address but I
didn't know what IP addresses
are important to my case yet,
I would have to do a lot
of keyword searches,
just searching for
individual IP addresses.
This is where our pattern
matching comes in.
Our patents searches,
grep searches,
which we're going to talk
about in our next module.